hello and welcome to another video from
sustenance uncovered on the channel you
need to not only survive the current
apocalypse but actually enjoy today
we're going to do a little video about
pruning now everybody's opinion on
pruning is different of course the guys
that have those peach orchards and
orange orchards they got a way to prune
things to maximize production we're not
worried about that I'm in a permaculture
forest and I want to be able to see
snakes and things so basically i want my
tree is clear from where they sort
should be productive which is above this
major portion of branches all the way
down that way i can see you notice of
course this part of the woods is not
really as manicured as it should because
my machine broke but in any case we're
going to show you with this tree right
here how I prune a tree first thing I do
now always carry my Gerber scissors and
my Gerber pruners on me and I've got
about three or four pairs of these and
three or four scissors but the only
reason I carry these is because they
came with little will you call these
holsters and my sweet call fiskars
fiskars don't have holsters oh I don't
carry them with me but you'll always use
the with the curve down and because
mostly things have a locking mechanism
if you try to use it like that just the
gravity feeds set a little lock and then
you can't open it again so loppers are
meant to be used printers are meant to
be used like this and the first thing
I'm going to do you see these things I
don't have leaves those are dead limbs
so just cut the dead limbs off nothing
else just cut dead limbs off until
you're done cutting dead limbs off then
you can take a look at your tree and see
what's what's next
and I'm not wearing his hat because I'm
scared of falling debris my hair has
gotten kind of big and now regular
hammer fit no more I should be wearing
it oh yeah I just dropped the log on her
a few minutes ago so he's trying to
recover we're making a video i might
post that video just so people can see
you get hurt oh the dangers of
videotaping not for normal people but
when you videotaping me yeah alright so
now we got all the dead stuff off the
peach this is an Alberta peach but it's
only an Alberta peach down to right here
I don't know if you can see this that is
a graft so this is a peach or nectarine
down here but it may make a feature of
nectarines about size of a marble we
don't really know what they use for
rootstocks on these so I'm going to
actually prune away a lot of the small
stuff down here as well with my pocket
printers you don't want anything growing
below the graft it'll just get in the
way it's ugly and and it's not going to
produce what you want now i'm going to
show you something else here well as
well i got to it because i just got
these pruners somebody wants me to do a
video of my hola purrs I mean hard to
believe these here look I identical I
thought they were identical when I
ordered them except for one head of Saul
in the handle but look at the difference
that's a huge difference you this is
what I use when I'm clearing the woods
that's my 25 inch power gear by past
lovers and that's a heavy duty at
instrument this here when I got it I
thought man that's nothing but a toy but
the reality is when I'm pruning fruit
trees this is perfect this is the
fiskars I think it's a 21 inch sure take
this all out oh yeah let me get that out
of there and I have used this to Saul
through some wood and it cuts really
quick so if you're out and you're
turning fruit trees you'll be able to do
anything you need with this and what
can't do with that you can do with the
saw blade but anyways I'll just cut this
down here with it just so you can see
how it works and that's not much of a
test see if I got something else around
here needs to go oh well that's true
right there is a laying down the thing
that I really don't want to lose it but
this is kind of ugly this trees coming
down and it is dying see the thing four
of its dead already and it isn't water
oak but they have a bunch of those so
here we go pretty big about a one inch
easily a one-inch branch and it's live
no problem just cuts right through it oh
yeah you almost got hit again anyways if
I'm clearing the forest I use these
fiskars 25-inch power gear loppers but
when I'm pruning fruit trees this is all
you need this is that little well you'll
note recognize it if you go online to
home depot they sell them for twenty
dollars it's the only one with a saw in
the blade in the handle and look you can
turn it around that way but if you're
working in tight quarters you don't
really want stuff sticking out that's it
that's how I prune fruit trees probably
not for production but its way I like my
woods to look